Okay.
Script naming convention.
What are the names that we should use when he created first?
First of all,
I will tell you that every time you need to create scripts in your links environment,
always created directory,
call it scripts or my scripts.
Or if it's a project based scripts type of like http directory or,
um,
payroll directory,
where you're going to create your scripts.
Directive structure is very important,
so you don't you don't create scripts all over the place.
So follow the standard creep creature directory,
which ever folder Just you picked that you want to create your directory in.
That is fine,
then script name.
The script name should identify the function if you are going to get into a job or if your
job functionality is revolves around creating a lot of scripts,
doing a lot of automation than it's best that you name it,
that matches its purpose if you wanna.
If your script is going to check the date,
um,
checked today's date and you are naming it X Y Z.
Then again,
a few months from the day you create,
you're gonna forget what X Y Z is for,
so it is good that you name it like date or something.
My date script or something like that.
And the script should end with a shell if you are using bash so that I would say right the
name off the name of the script Followed by dot B a s h.
Now,
this rule this rule should only be used,
which I usually follow This rule when I am creating multiple shell scripts.
Meaning if you were creating shell script in corn shell,
seashell,
pearl or bash,
then you you need to have the extension at the end images dot s h dot corn shell.
So these are the few three basic standards that you should have.
Let me log into my linens machine and I will show you exactly what I wanted to cover here.
So if you going to your the next machine and you log into your home directory,
let's say my home directory is slash home slash i absolve in my home Director.
You notice I have Ah,
Derek,
you call script.
So this is what I mean.
So every time you create a script,
you need to create a directory first.
So this way you go into your script directory.
So they say,
You know,
you don't have to scroll through on and find out where your scripts are.
So in my home directory,
you'll see I have a very few files in directory,
so it's very easy for me to find out because it's a test environment.
But maybe you're working in an environment where you create thousands of directories.
So that's why it's important to create a doctor.
Call a script once you create this cryptic tree,
then you could just go in and you'll see right here in my home directory,
I have a script called X y Z Dash script.
No,
as I mentioned X Y Z desk grip,
it's not a really good name.
You cannot tell what exactly it does.
So if I run the script,
you'll see it actually spits out Hello,
World on the screen.
So that's exactly what it does.
If I wanted to associated that script with the named and I should do is X Y Z scrip.
Move It move is a command to change a name off a file.
I'm sure you know that,
and I will say,
um,
hello world or W or O complete name.
That's fine.
And I will run that command and you'll see now my script name has changed to hello world.
Now,
if I am using multiple shells,
then I should label it as move Hello world dot So hello,
world Dodd B A s h This way.
If I'm creating multiple script and corn shell or C shell,
then I would know that this script was created in Bash.
So this is basically very quick lesson I want to cover.
Remember that this is the standard that you follow.
Also,
if you are doing that type of work in your environment and that you decided to leave your
job and move on to another career and then the person who's gonna come and replace you that
person I'm telling you is gonna be so happy or even your manager is gonna be so happy that
you are so organized that all the script that you created while you stayed with the company
are all organized and where to find them